# DataScience_AcademicProjects
This Repository consists of Projects done by me for Academic purposes.Projects are presented in the form of Google colab notebooks<br>
## Instructions for running Python Notebooks Locally
Run notebooks as usual by using a jupyter notebook server, Vscode etc.<br>
## Contents
### Machine Learning:
#### Supervised Learning:
[Customer Churn Prediction](https://github.com/RajithaMamillapally/DataScience_AcademicProjects/blob/main/Capsone_project/Customer%20Churn%20prediction.ipynb):A predictive model to identify and reduce customer churn, contributing to improved customer retention strategies.<br>
[Election prediction](https://github.com/RajithaMamillapally/DataScience_AcademicProjects/blob/main/Machine%20learning/Election%20prediction.ipynb):Tested out different Supervised learning models to build a model to create an exit poll that will help in predicting overall win and seats covered by a particular party.<br>
[E-Commerce EDA](https://github.com/RajithaMamillapally/DataScience_AcademicProjects/blob/main/Exploratory_Data_analysis/E-Commerce%20EDA.ipynb):Conducted an Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) to analyze various aspects of an E-Commerce company, providing insights and answers to specific questions outlined in the analysis. The EDA aims to uncover patterns, trends, and key metrics in the dataset, contributing to a better understanding of the company's performance and customer behavior.<br>
[Contraceptive Usage prediction](https://github.com/RajithaMamillapally/DataScience_AcademicProjects/blob/main/predictive%20modeling/Contraceptive%20usage%20prediction.ipynb):Developed a predictive model that determines whether married women in Indonesia, who are not pregnant or uncertain about their pregnancy status, use a contraceptive method of choice. The model is based on demographic and socio-economic characteristics collected from a Contraceptive Prevalence Survey.<br>
[System Activity Modeling for 'usr' Mode Prediction](https://github.com/RajithaMamillapally/DataScience_AcademicProjects/blob/main/predictive%20modeling/System%20Activity%20Modeling%20for%20'usr'%20Mode%20Prediction.ipynb):A linear regression model is built, which predicts the 'usr' (portion of time in user mode) based on a list of system attributes collected from a Sun Sparcstation 20/712. The goal is to understand how each attribute affects the system's behavior in 'usr' mode.<br>
#### Unsupervised Learning:
[Clustering Digital Ads](https://github.com/RajithaMamillapally/DataScience_AcademicProjects/blob/main/data_mining/Segmentation%20using%20clustering.ipynb): Segmented types of ads based on key features using K means clustering, Hierarchical clustering procedures and provided insights for strategic decision-making in Marketing Analytics.<br>
[Segmentation using PCA](https://github.com/RajithaMamillapally/DataScience_AcademicProjects/blob/main/data_mining/Segmentation%20using%20PCA.ipynb):Conducted a comprehensive Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) on the Primary Census Abstract data for female-headed households (excluding institutional households) from the 2011 Census in India. Utilized Principal Component Analysis (PCA) from the Scikit-Learn library to identify and explore the optimum principal components that explain the most variance in the dataset.<br>
### Time Series forecasting:
-[Analysis and Forecasting of Sparkling Wine Sales](https://github.com/RajithaMamillapally/DataScience_AcademicProjects/blob/main/Time%20series%20analysis/Time%20Series%20forecasting-%20Sparkling.ipynb):Analyzed and forecasted wine sales for Sparkling wines Rose in the 20th century using time series data. The analysis includes exploratory data analysis (EDA), decomposition, model building, stationarity checks, and an automated ARIMA/SARIMA model. The ultimate goal  of this project is to provide actionable insights for ABC Estate Wines to optimize sales strategies.<br>
-[Analysis and Forecasting of Rose Wine Sales](https://github.com/RajithaMamillapally/DataScience_AcademicProjects/blob/main/Time%20series%20analysis/Time%20Series%20forecasting-Rose.ipynb):Analyzed and forecasted wine sales for Rose wine in the 20th century using time series data. The analysis includes exploratory data analysis (EDA), decomposition, model building, stationarity checks, and an automated ARIMA/SARIMA model. The ultimate goal  of this project is to provide actionable insights for ABC Estate Wines to optimize sales strategies.<br>
### Finance and Risk analytics:
[Default Prediction Analysis](https://github.com/RajithaMamillapally/DataScience_AcademicProjects/blob/main/Finance%20and%20Risk%20analytics/Default%20prediction%20analysis.ipynb):Developed a predictive model to identify default risk in companies using financial data. Assist investors in evaluating companies' financial health and decision-making. <br>
[Indian Stock Analysis](https://github.com/RajithaMamillapally/DataScience_AcademicProjects/blob/main/Finance%20and%20Risk%20analytics/Indian%20stock%20analysis.ipynb):Performed market risk analysis on 10 Indian stocks by calculating and interpreting the mean and standard deviation of stock returns over 6 years of weekly data. The analysis aims to provide insights into the volatility and potential market risks associated with these stocks.<br>
### Analysis using statistics:
[Austo-automobile company analysis](https://github.com/RajithaMamillapally/DataScience_AcademicProjects/blob/main/Analysis_using_statistics/austo-automobile%20company%20analysis.ipynb):Conducted a comprehensive data analysis to improve Austo Motor Company's marketing campaign efficiency, providing clear and accessible insights for enhancing the current campaign's effectiveness in promoting SUV, Sedan, and Hatchback models.<br>
[Framing analytics problem-godigt bank](https://github.com/RajithaMamillapally/DataScience_AcademicProjects/blob/main/Analysis_using_statistics/Framing%20analytics%20problem-godigt%20bank.ipynb):Identified key variables that significantly influence the credit card usage and attrition rate among GODIGT Bank's customers.<br>
### Advanced Statistics:
[Advanced Statistics](https://github.com/RajithaMamillapally/DataScience_AcademicProjects/tree/main/Advanced%20Statistics):Analyzed and drew conclusions from diverse datasets using statistical methods such as t-tests, ANOVA, and hypothesis testing to make informed decisions in various scenarios, ranging from material quality assessment to professional performance evaluations.<br>
### SQL project:
[Retail Insights optimization](https://github.com/RajithaMamillapally/DataScience_AcademicProjects/tree/main/SQL%20Project):Extracted valuable insights from the "Reliant retail limited" online retail store's database, covering aspects such as customer categorization, product inventory status, order details, and more. The objective is to facilitate data-driven decisions that can contribute to the overall growth and efficiency of the online retail business.<br>
### Market and Retail analytics using KNIME:
[Recency Frequency and Monetory Analysis](https://github.com/RajithaMamillapally/DataScience_AcademicProjects/blob/main/Market%20and%20Retail%20Analytics/RFM%20analysis.knwf): Conducted Recency, Frequency, and Monetary (RFM) analysis on the transactional data of an automobile parts manufacturing company to identify underlying buying patterns among customers. The goal is to provide actionable insights to the company, segment customers based on their buying behavior.<br>
[Market Basket Analysis](https://github.com/RajithaMamillapally/DataScience_AcademicProjects/blob/main/Market%20and%20Retail%20Analytics/Market%20Basket%20Analysis.knwf):Conducted Market Basket Analysis on the transactional data from a grocery store.Identified frequent item sets in customer orders, the aim is to recommend popular combo offers and discounts to increase the store's revenue. The project seeks to provide actionable insights for the grocery store to create appealing and profitable bundled offers, enhancing customer engagement and sales.
### Natural Language Processing:
[Presidential Speech Analysis]():Explored and extracted valuable insights from these speeches, including important metrics and word frequency, to gain a deeper understanding of the content and linguistic patterns used by the mentioned Presidents during their inaugural addresses and generated word cloud.
